So here is what the soldier sliders actually do.
1) Send low rank soldiers from storage first when filling up building  - Send high ranking soldiers from storage first when filling up building
2) When defending a building send out the low ranking units first - send out the high ranking units first
3) When defending against a large attack send no support from surrounding buildings - send full support from surrounding buildings (only 1 unit remaining)
4) When attacking let a lot of units remain in building - allow sending all units (only 1 unit remaining)
5) Empty buildings with white flag - fill buildings with white flag
6) Empty buildings with one stripe flag - fill buildings with one stripe flag
7) Empty buildings with two stripe flag - fill buildings with two stripe flag

And here is how you use them in a soldier shuffle (careful can leave buildings vulnerable and might take a while!)
1) Build a fortress with Gold allowed
2) Slider 1 to minimum
3) Slider of the fortress flag to full (5, 6 or 7), recruits fill the fortress
3) Wait until generals are trained
4) Slider of the fortress flag to empty (generals go to storage)
5) Repeat 3 and 4 until a lot of generals are trained
6) Slider 2 to maximum, so that your generals are used when buildings request soldiers
This is also a way to replace "lazy" generals in safe buildings with new soldiers.

I believe this is the intended way the mission should play:
You are supposed to hold with the fortresses and expand right. Use the harbor to land on the landing near to red (safe, as red doesn't attack) and settle southwest around the mountain, using some catapults. This could explain the empty land, as you would have to be strong enough to hold the connection while red and yellow are still alive.
Of cause this doesn't work due to the harbor bugs... and maybe I am just making excuses for a game I love despite it's flaws.

Harbors in general were intended to be even more relevant. Every culture even has a unique harbor graphic, though you will likely never see them, as Enemies don't build harbors.

Sorry for the wall of text, so late after the video release, but I played this game faaaaar to much in the past. Maybe this might still help someone in the future.
